### Could the ATP produced by mitochondrial also have an important autocrine/paracrine role?
ATP is also a signalling molecule and extracellular ATP alters hormone release. If there is more ATP produced in a cell then is there also more ATP released from that cell? Autocrine mechanism? Since this paper shows ATP can increase LH release 14-fold. They also show that pituitary secretagogues induce ATP release from cells so perhaps this is an additional autocrine amplifier of hormone secretion? Is ATP co-stored and co-released with pituitary hormones (this is true in adrenal chromaffin cells and pancreatic beta cells)? [Chen 1995](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.92.11.5219)

ATP stimulates PLC activity in anterior pituitary cells to a greater degree than any other hypothalamic releasing factor [Davidson 1990](https://doi.org/10.1210/endo-126-1-80)

ATP released by pituitary cells contributes to both basal and stimulated PRL secretion [Nunez 1997](https://doi.org/10.1152/ajpendo.1997.272.6.E1117) they also show that ATP secretion mirrors PRL secretion in response to TRH or bromocryptine (i.e. enhanced and inhibited)

In the endocrine pancreas, ATP and insulin are present in the same secretory granules but ATP release seems to occur before insulin, suggesting that they may be regulated differently and released under different circumstances "ATP may modulate the beta cell’s responsiveness to glucose at levels near threshold" [Caicedo 2013](https:///doi.org/10.1016/j.semcdb.2012.09.007) -> as ATP is largely derived from mitochondria and presumably more is produced during situations of increased metabolic demand, is ATP linking hormone release to metabolic state somehow? More hormone demand -> more mitochondrial ATP production to support hormone production/release -> more ATP release to support more hormone release? = *positive feedback loop* #interesting ALSO, ATP regulates vascular function. And because ATP release generally correlates with cellular activity, ATP is a good candidate molecule to regulate local blood flow! [[Vascular anatomy of the pituitary]] so this way blood flow would increase by more metabolically active cells. Could target endothelial cells and/or pericytes.